features.md, before:

# Features

This is effectively a ToDo list for API documentation

- Bootstrapping
  - `<OblongApp>` for configuring everything
- State
  - `O.state('user.name')` For Redux state tree organization
  - `O.state().as(false)` To specify default value
  - `O.state().with({ name }).as(o => o.name.length)` Default values can be calculated like queries
- Commands
  - `O.command('doIt')` For event emission
  - `O.command().with({ name })` Can have dependencies
  - `O.command().as(() => { ... })` Any function as implementation
- Queries
  - `O.query('firstName')` For... debugging? Not used yet
  - `O.query().with({ name })` Can only depend on Queryables
  - `O.query().as(() => true)` Implementation must be pure synchronous function
- Views
  - `O.view('Name')` For DevTools
  - `O.view().as(function Something() {})` Alternative for devtools
  - `O.view().with({ name })` Can have dependencies
  - `O.view().as(() => <>Hello world</>)` Functional components as implementations
  - `O.view().with({ name }).if(o => o.name)` Conditional rendering
- Quality of Life
  - `O.` for accessing four core building blocks
  - Re-export React to avoid import
  - `defineProperty` behavior to keep values live and allow state mutation via assignment
  - Templates for `create-react-app`
- Performance
  - Views are wrapped in `React.memo` to avoid cascading re-renders
  - Object freezing only runs in debug
  - `setEquality` on state to avoid unnecessary state changes
  - Queries all map to `reselect` selectors
- Code Quality
  - State values and query results are frozen to avoid accidental mutation
  - Queries and Commands don't allow accidentally setting them
- Loading
  - Async commands are watched for global loading status
  - `isLoading` global loading status
  - `createLoader` for more targeted async monitoring
  - `.ignoreLoading()` on commands to prevent default behavior
- Interop
  - `fromSelector` to allow plain selectors to be used as a dependency
  - `fromActionCreator` to allow plain action creators to be used as a dependency
  - `portableReducer` to allow either reducer creation or third party redux library integration
- Routing
  - `currentLocation` query for current route
- Miscellaneous
  - `hydrate` to restore a serialized state
  - `rootState` for grabbing the entire state tree, useful in combination with `hydrate`
- Error handling
  - Commands have error tracking built in for the `globalErrorSink`
  - Custom error sinks can be created using `createErrorSink`

Commit message:

Eventing! and a couple other happy things

features.md, after:

# Features

This is effectively a ToDo list for API documentation

- Bootstrapping
  - `<OblongApp>` for configuring everything
- State
  - `O.state('user.name')` For Redux state tree organization
  - `O.state().as(false)` To specify default value
  - `O.state().with({ name }).as(o => o.name.length)` Default values can be calculated like queries
- Commands
  - `O.command('doIt')` For event emission
  - `O.command().with({ name })` Can have dependencies
  - `O.command().on(event)` Can watch for event
  - `O.command().as(() => { ... })` Any function as implementation
- Queries
  - `O.query('firstName')` For... debugging? Not used yet
  - `O.query().with({ name })` Can only depend on Queryables
  - `O.query().as(() => true)` Implementation must be pure synchronous function
- Views
  - `O.view('Name')` For DevTools
  - `O.view().as(function Something() {})` Alternative for devtools
  - `O.view().with({ name })` Can have dependencies
  - `O.view().as(() => <>Hello world</>)` Functional components as implementations
  - `O.view().with({ name }).if(o => o.name)` Conditional rendering
- Quality of Life
  - `O.` for accessing four core building blocks
  - Re-export React to avoid import
  - `defineProperty` behavior to keep values live and allow state mutation via assignment
  - Templates for `create-react-app`
- Performance
  - Views are wrapped in `React.memo` to avoid cascading re-renders
  - Object freezing only runs in debug
  - `setEquality` on state to avoid unnecessary state changes
  - Queries all map to `reselect` selectors
- Code Quality
  - State values and query results are frozen to avoid accidental mutation
  - Queries and Commands don't allow accidentally setting them
- Loading
  - Async commands are watched for global loading status
  - `isLoading` global loading status
  - `createLoader` for more targeted async monitoring
  - `.ignoreLoading()` on commands to prevent default behavior
- Interop
  - `fromSelector` to allow plain selectors to be used as a dependency
  - `fromActionCreator` to allow plain action creators to be used as a
    dependency
  - `portableReducer` to allow either reducer creation or third party redux library integration
  - `dispatch`/`getState` for access to those raw underlying functions
- Routing
  - `currentLocation` query for current route
- Miscellaneous
  - `hydrate` to restore a serialized state
  - `rootState` for grabbing the entire state tree, useful in combination with `hydrate`
- Error handling
  - Commands have error tracking built in for the `globalErrorSink`
  - Custom error sinks can be created using `createErrorSink`
  - Avoid lint errors by wrapping strings or arrays in `OblongError`
- Eventing
  - Events can be made and emitted via `makeEvent`
  - Commands can watch for events using `.on`
